The President:
Last month, our economy added
more than 100,000 private sector
jobs and the unemployment
rate fell sharply.
This follows encouraging
economic news from increased
auto sales to continued
expansion of our manufacturing sector.
Now, we know that these numbers can
bounce around from month to month.
But the trend is clear.
We saw 12 straight months of
private sector job growth --
the first time that's
been true since 2006.
The economy added 1.3
million jobs last year.
And each quarter was
stronger than the last,
which means the pace of
hiring is picking up.
Now we're seeing more optimistic
economic forecasts for the year
ahead, in part due to the
package of tax cuts I signed last month.
I fought for that
package because,
while we are recovering, we
plainly still have a lot of work to do.
The recession rocked the
foundations of our economy,
and left a lot of destruction
and a lot of doubt in its wake.
So, our fundamental mission must
be to accelerate hiring and
growth, while we do the things
we know are necessary to ensure
America's leadership in an
increasingly competitive world
and build an economy that will
provide opportunity to any
American willing to work for it.
I'm absolutely confident
we'll get there.
I'm confident, first and
foremost, because of you;
because the ingenuity of our
entrepreneurs and business
owners; the tenacity
of our workers;
and the determination
of the American people.
This is what has made our
economy the envy of the world.
But we have to do everything we
can to help our businesses and
workers win in this new economy.
Now, yesterday, I visited the
Thompson Creek Window Company,
a small business in Maryland.
Over the past year, sales there
have grown by 55% thanks,
in part, to an energy
tax credit we created.
And this year, they're also
planning to take advantage of a
new tax incentive
for businesses.
For one year, any
business, large or small,
can write off the full cost of
most of their capital investments.
This will make it more
affordable for businesses like
Thompson Creek to
expand and to hire.
So, if you're a business owner,
I'd encourage you to take
advantage of this
temporary provision.
It will save you money today and
help you grow your business tomorrow.
This incentive is part of the
economic package I signed into
law last month -- a package that
also includes a payroll tax cut
that will mean $1,000 more
this year for a typical family.
In fact, 155 million workers
will see larger paychecks this
month as a result
of this tax cut.
12 million families will benefit
from a $1,000 child tax credit
and an expanded Earned
Income Tax Credit.
Eight million students and
families will continue to
benefit from a $2,500 tuition tax
credit to make college more affordable.
And millions of entrepreneurs
in big cities and small towns
across the country will benefit
not only from the business
expensing plan I mentioned, but
from additional tax cuts that
will spur research
and development.
Independent experts have
concluded that, taken together,
this package of tax cuts will
significantly accelerate the
pace of our economic recovery,
spurring additional jobs and growth.
And that's our mission.
That should be the focus,
day in and day out,
of our work in Washington
in the coming months,
as we wrestle with a challenging
budget and long-term deficits.
And I'm determined to
work with everyone,
Republicans and Democrats,
to achieve that goal.
What we can't do is refight the
battles of the past two years
that distract us from the hard
work of moving our economy forward.
What we can't do is engage in
the kinds of symbolic battles
that so often consume Washington
while the rest of America waits
for us to solve problems.
The tax cuts and other progress
we made in December were a
much-needed departure
from that pattern.
Let's build on that admirable
example and do our part,
here in Washington, so that
the doers, the builders,
the innovators in America can do
their best in 2011 and beyond.
Thanks everybody, and
have a great weekend.